yuvcutter(1) -- cut frames from raw yuv video files
===================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`yuvcutter` [video.yuv] [OPTION(S)] [-C] [-H HEIGHT] [-M YUV_MODE]
[-N NB_FRAMES] [-W WIDTH]

## DESCRIPTION

**yuvcutter** cuts the first "N" frames from raw YUV video files (`video.yuv`).
If no video is specified as input, **yuvcutter** assumes that the input video is
"input.yuv".
"N" is equal to "1" by default but you can easily change it using `-N` option.
YUV supported format are 4:2:0, 4:2:2 and 4:4:4. Default is set to 4:2:0.
Note that as this YUV files are raw files with no information on content, you
need to specify the video width and height in order for **yuvcutter** to behave
as expected. By default, it assumes the input video is "1920x1080".

**yuvcutter** has also the ability to display the number of frames of the YUV
file by using `-C` option.

## OPTIONS

Common options:

  * `-h`:
    Show this help and exit.

  * `-v`:
    Activate verbose mode.

  * `-V`:
    Show program version and exit.

Specific options:

  * `-C`
    Count the number of frames in the YUV file.
    It does not cut any frame from the video but just display this information.

  * `-H HEIGHT`:
    Specify video height. Default is set to "1080".

  * `-M YUV_MODE`:
    Specify YUV mode used. Possible values are "420", "422" and "444".
    Default is set to "420".

  * `-N NB_FRAMES`:
    Specify the number of frames to cut. Default is set to "1".
    This option is ignored when `-C` option is triggered.

  * `-W WIDTH`:
    Specify video width. Default is set to "1920".


## FILES

`yuvcutter` expects input files to be non compressed YUV raw video files. They
typically have a `.yuv` extension.

## KNOWN LIMITATIONS

Due to some limitations of the C language (and me being lazy about dealing
with it), you will not be able to cut a very large number of frames.
On most computer, this mean that you will not be able to cut more than the
number of frames representing the first 512M of the YUV file.
One workaround, if you really want to cut a whole lot of frames, is to run this
program several times over the output YUV file.

## BUGS

Please, report any bug you encounter either directly on the official website:
<http://projects.gw-computing.net/projects/yuvcutter>
or by sending an email to the author.

## AUTHORS

Robin Hahling <robin.hahling@gw-computing.net>

## COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2013 Robin Hahling

## LICENSE

BSD 3-clause

## SEE ALSO

ffmpeg(1)
